
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sQlRDw6--HwyxeFL7b4kBsOG-Tz7rXMbpWNnfvJErA4/edit
2.What do you mean by network topology, and explain types of them 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/types-of-network-topology/

3. Define bandwidth, node and link ? 
A node is an individual processing unit , it has capabaility to communicate with other nodes on demand , process the information it receives. ... A link is a physical and logical network component used to interconnect hosts or nodes in the network.

Bandwidth is measured as the amount of data that can be transferred from one point to another within a network in a specific amount of time. Typically, bandwidth is expressed as a bitrate and measured in bits per second (bps).


What is Gateway?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ai5bFPVToMU
A gateway is a network node that connects two networks using different protocols together.

It also acts as a "gate" b/w two networks. IT may be a router,firewall,server, or other devices that enables traffic to flow in and out of the network.

Difference between gateway and router

1) When two devices are connected using different protocol, then network node called gateway is used to connect those two devices.

2) It routes the traffic between two networks.

3) For example router at our home acts as gateway  between our LAN cable and Wide area network.

4) It is node through which one network enters another network

Router
Network device that forward packet from one network to another. Based on internal routing tables, router read each incomming packet and decide how to forward it. Routers  work at network layer(layer3) of the protocol

Route traffic from one network to other.

Routers provide additional features like Static routing and wireless networking/ipv6 address, Mac address

Supports dynamic routing.

works on layer 3 and layer 4 of OSI model.


Gateway
Device that converts one protocol or format to another. A network gateway converts packets from one protocol to another. The gateway functions as an entry/exit point to the network.

Translate from one protocol to other.

Protocol conversion like VoIP to PSTN or network access control etc.

Does not support dynamic routing.

Works up to layer 5 of OSI MODEL. 


8) what does ping command do?
PING (Packet Internet Groper) command is used to check the network connectivity between host and server/host. This command takes as input the IP address or the URL and sends a data packet to the specified address with the message “PING” and get a response from the server/host this time is recorded which is called latency. Fast ping low latency means faster connection. Ping uses ICMP(Internet Control Message Protocol) to send an ICMP echo message to the specified host if that host is available then it sends ICMP reply message. Ping is generally measured in millisecond every modern operating system has this ping pre-installed. 

9)What is DNS, DNS forwarder, NIC, ? 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JkEYOt08-rU
In Domain Name System (DNS) terms, a DNS forwarder is a DNS server that is used to forward DNS queries for external DNS names to DNS servers outside that network.

NIC
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/what-is-network-interface-card-nic

MAC address
MAC stands for Media Access Control
Every node in the LAN is identified with the help of MAC address only.
IP Address = Location of a person.
MAC Address = Name of the person.

Differences b/w MAC address and IP address

Routers - takes IP address
Switch - takes MAC address

Every node in the LAN is identified with the help of MAC address.
Physical address or Hardware Address.
Unique
Cannot be changed
Assigned by the manufacturer implemented in NIC
Represented in hexadecimal
Example:70-20-84-99-ED-FC(48 bits)
Separator: -,.,: (decided by the manufacturer)


IP Address										MAC address
Logical Address									Physical Address
Needed for communication						Needed for Communication
32 Bits											48 Bits
Represented in decimal							Represented in hexadecimal
Router needs IP address to forward data			Switches  needs MAC address to forward data
Example: 10.10.23.56							Example: 70-20-84-99-ED-FC


14) What is Firewalls?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_vyfo3Hw0Y&t=737s(gate smashers)
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-firewall-in-computer-network/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUPoA3MSajU(easy explanation)

15)Different types of delays

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wo3M5G9ZHo0
refer video for problems

 latency(delay)
 The Latency or delay defines how long it takes for an entire message to completely arrive at the destination from the time, the first bit is sent out from the source.

 Components of Latency(delay)
 Latency is made of four components:
 1) Transmission delay.
 2) Propagation delay.
 3) Queuing delay.
 4) Processing delay.

 Sum of all these delays forms the latency.
 Latency = Transmission delay+ Propagation delay+Queuing delay+Processing delay

Transmission Delay/Time

Time it takes to place the complete data packet(of  a message) on the transmission medium.

source(A)---intermediate_node----intermediate_node--destination(B)

The time taken by source to place complete message on transmission medium

Transmission Time = (Message Size)/Bandwidth


Propogation Delay/Time

Time it takes for a bit to go from Device A to Device B

source(A)---intermediate_node----intermediate_node--destination(B)

The propogation time is calculated by dividing the distance by the propogation speed.

Propogation Time = Distance/propogation speed


Queuing Delay/Time

The time needed for each intermediate or end device to hold the message before it can be processed.

source(A)---intermediate_node----intermediate_node--destination(B)

* the time taken by source to place the message on transmission media is Transmission delay.
* the time taken by a bit to go from source to dest is propogation delay.
* the total time the intermediate nodes and even end device holds the message is queuing delay.

The queuing time is not a fixed factor, it changes with the load imposed on the network.

when there is heavy traffic on the network, the queuing time increases.


Processing Delay/Time

The total time the node  takes to process the message.

Usually processing delay and queuing delay is not taken into account while calculating latency.


16) 3 way handshaking 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qIEHUUt2Wfc and also refer notes(green color one)

17) What is HTTP and HTTPS protocol ? 
https://www.javatpoint.com/http-vs-https

Application layer protocols
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/data_communication_computer_network/application_protocols.htm

21) Difference b/w TCP and UDP
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJyXpMmXJI0&t=7s
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/differences-between-tcp-and-udp/
Both are Transport layer protocols

TCP is connection oriented means it establishes TCP connection before sending data to the other device.

UDP is connectionless.

TCP is more reliable than UDP as it is connection oriented.

UDP is  less reliable  as it is connectionless.

TCP follows ordering whereas in UDP packets there is no ordering.

TCP provides Error control using checksum it is mandatory
UPD also provides Error control using checksum but it is optional

TCP provides slow transmission when compared to UDP
UDP is faster when compared to TCP(packets can arrive from different routes)

TCP provides Flow control and Congestion Control.
UDP doesnot provides FLow control and congestion control

There is Feedbacks in TCP
there isn't any feedbacks in UDP

applications uses TCP: HTTP,FTP,POP
applications uses UDP : DNS

23)Network Devices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eMamgWllRFY



Network interface card (NIC)
for a device to connect to a network it needs Network interface card.
It is a physical and datalink layer device used by computers to connect and communicate with other devices on the LAN or on the network. 
There is unique Physical address to each NIC which is called MAC address it is hexadecimal 6byte(6*8 = 48bits)

Wifi card is used to connect any device to local network wirelessly.

Wifi Access Point(WAP)
The physical area of the network which provides internet access through wifi is called wifi-hotspot or wifi access point.
every access point has a range of 120 to 150 feet only devices within this  range can connect to the network.
There is also a limit to the number of devices connected.

With NIC and Wifi card a computer is ready to connect to other computer.
we need hub or switch to connect to other computer.

Hub
A hub is a physical layer device which has multiple ports that are used to connect multiple computers or segments of LAN together.
Data is transferred  to all the devices connected . all the devices expect the intended devices rejects the data.
Active Hub: amplify the signal as it moves from one device to another.
Passive Hub: allow the signal to be passed without any change.

Hub is not so secure and safe.
Copying the data packets on all the interfaces makes it slower and more congested and wastes bandwith
to overcome this problem we use of network switch.

Switch

Hub just does the work of data forwarding, a switch does "Filter and Forwarding" which is a more intelligent way of dealing with the data packets.

when a switch receives a packet it checks for it destination address and forward the packet to correct destination.
It even checks the packet for collision and other network errors 
This technique is called packet switching technique.
Switch also maintains a list of all devices network address connected to it in this way it prevents the overloading of traffic on a network.


Router 
Since Router makes use of IP address it is a network layer device. It can work like  a switch that routes data packets based on their IP addresses

Router is mainly used to connect multiple networks supporting same protocols.
Router are generally used to connect multiple lans to internet

it maintains routing table to determine the best possible route a packet can travel to reach destination accurately and quickly

Static and dyanamic routing.

It also amplifies the signals before transmitting so it is also called repeaters.

Differences b/w hub switch and routers.

Hub works in physical layer
Switch works in data/network layer
router works in network layer

Hub Broadcast messages
Switch multicast messages
Router routes  messages

Hub sends data  as bits.
Switch sends  data as frames
Router sends data as packets

Hub connects devices within the same network
Switch connect devices to network
Router connect two different network(same protocols)

Hub Doesnot store MAC addresses
Switch Store MAC addresses
Router store MAC addresses


Bridge

A bridge connects two or more LANS(same protocols).It operates at data link layer. Bridges handles network that follow the same protocol.

When it gets frame it check for destination address and forwards the packet to right destination
can forward multiple frames at the same time.

forwarding,filtering,blocking of frames are functions of bridges.

Gateway
Gateway is a network device used to connect two or more dissimilar networks i.e networks using different protocols. packet filtering technique is also used here.

Repeaters are used to extend transmissions so that the signal can cover longer distances or be received on the other side of an obstruction.
It increases the power of signal and re-transmits it.


24) VPN, advantages and disadvantages of it
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-to-virtual-private-network-vpn/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_wQTRMBAvzg



































 























