what is React?
React is an open-source javascript library for building user interfaces
It is maintained  by Facebook

React is a Framework or Library?
A javascript library for building user interfaces

React vs Angular

react							Angular
User library					Complete Framework
Virtual DOM						Real DOM
one way Binding					Two way Binding
Flux Design pattern				Component Based MVC
Facebook						Google

Create a simple project using CLI?
install npm
npm install -g create-react-app 

to start react application
npm create-react-app project_name

to start the server localhost:3000
npm start

Explain the react Project?

what are the features of React?

JSX is used with React to describe what the user interface should look like
A component is like a function which returns JSX(HTML elements)
Speedy performance as only the changed components are updated
One-way data binding keeps everything modular and fast
Virtual DOM is lightweight representation of real-DOM

JSX-is a syntax extension to Javascript
By using jsx,you can write HTML structures in the same file that contains javascript code
It is used with React to describe how the user interface should look like

Can JSX be directly read by the web browsers?
web browsers cannot read jsx directly it is because the browsers are built to only read regular js objects and Jsx is not a regular js object
For a web browser to read a  jsx file it should be transformed into regular js object. for this JS api Babel is internally used.

virtual DOM
In a Real DOM whenever a html element changes the entire page is refreshed to update the userinterface. it is quit expensive.
React keeps a lightweight representation of the Real DOM in the memory, and that is known as Virtual DOM.
when the state of an object changes, Virtual DOM changes only the object in the Real DOM instead of updating all the objects and this makes things really fast.


why use React instead of other frameworks like Angular?
Easy creation of dynamic web apps
Reusable Components
Enhanced performance
Easy Debugging
unidirectional data flow

ES5 var React = require('react')
ES6 import React from 'react'
ES5 module.exports = Component
ES6 export default Component

What is an event in React?
An event is an action triggered by User or by system event like pressing a key, a mouse click etc.

Why is there a need of using keys when using map?

A key is a unique identifier.
It increases the performance as only the changed components are re-rendered.
It also helps to determine which components need to be re-rendered instead of re-rendering that all the components every time.

What are Forms in React?
Using Forms users can interact with the application and enter the required information whenever needed.
Forms are used for many different tasks like authentication,searching,filtering etc..
use onChange and state updates.

in jsx comments should be written inside {}
single  line //
multi line /* */

React
Web platform
HTML
CSS
JS,HTML,CSS

React-native
Mobile-Android,IOS
NO
NO
ReactJS

React            	Angular
Virtual DOM       	Real DOM
faster due to 		comparitevely slower
virtual DOM
Rendering is 		rendering is Client-side
Server-side			
Data-binding 		Data-binding is Bi-dir
is uni-directional	
Facebook			Google

What are components in React?
Components are the building block of any react-application,
and single app usually consists of multiple components.

It splits the user interfaces into independent reusable pieces that can be processed separately.

A component is a piece of user interface


Class based components

render() function returns the HTML(JSX) which is to be displayed in a component.

what is State of a component?
State of a component is an object that holds some data of that component
This data influences the output of a component.

update the state of a component
using the built-in 'setState()' method, we can update the state of a component.

this.setState(prevState=>{ var temp = prevState temp.name="sn" return temp})

what are props in React?
Props are properties, that allow us to pass arguements or data to components.
in class based components this.props.attribute
in function based components props.attribute

Difference between state and props
states
Holds information about the components.
is mutable.
can be Changed.
Cannot be accessed by child components.


Props
Allow to pass data from component to other  component as an argument
are immutable
Are read-only.
Props can be accessed by child components.

Higher order components
Higher order components act as a container for other components.
This helps in keeping components simple and induces re-usability
They are generally used when a common logic has to be used for different components.


Differences b/w class and functional components
class StatefulComponent extends React.Component
{
	render(){

		return <div>{this.props.title}</div>;
	}

}

const StatelessComponent = function(props){
	
	return (<div>{props.title}</div>)
	
}

class based components lifecycle methods of components?

1.getInitialState(): It is executed before the creation of the component
2.componentDidMount():It is executed when the component gets rendered and placed on the DOM
3.shouldComponentUpdate():It is invoked when a component decides any changes to the DOM and returns true or false value based on certain conditions.
4.componentDidUpdate():It is invoked immediately after rendering takes place.
5.ComponentwillUnmount():It is invoked immediately before a component is destroyed and unmounted permanently.

Redux is an open-source js library used to manage application state
React used redux for buidling the user interface

React-Router is a package which is used to create routing in react application

React Router is used for developing single page web applications

It allows multiple views in a single application by defining multiple routes in the React app
React Routing
Single HTML page
User navigates multiple views in same file accordance to url
The page doesnot refresh since it is a single file
improved performance


Conventional Routing
Each view is a new HTML file
User navigates multiple files for each view
The page refreshes every time user navigates
Slower performance

inline styling in react comp using {{}}
can be used only for JSX(HTML) elements
<h1 style={style_object}></h1>

app.css
import "./app.css"
use className is jsx














